# Chapter One

- AI is one of the newest fileds in science and engineering. 
- AI is relevant to any intellectual task.

## What is AI

Ai can be define by Four dimension where it's define by reasoning x behavior (comportamento).

### Acting Humanly 
  - Some form to test this dimension is by Turing Test, 
  it was designed to provide a satisfactory 
  operatiuonal definition of intelligence.
  - An AI passes the test when, after a human interrogator 
  poses written questions and cannot distinguish whether the 
  answers were generated by a human or a machine, 
  it utilizes responses generated based on questions 
  rather than those created by a human.
  - The computer would need some capabilities: 
  natual language processing, knowledge representation,
  automated reasoning and machine learning. 
  - Also exist the **total Turing Test** than includes a video signal 
  so that the interrogator can test the subject's perceptual abitiles,
  as well as the opportunity for the interrogator to pass 
  physical objects "through the hatch".
  - For the total Turing test the computer also would need: 
  computer vision and robotics. 
  - These six disciplines compose most of AI is possible because 
  the Turing Test that remains relevant 60 years later.

### Thinking Humanly
  - These try to aproximate the human to machine by rationally, 
  and it's possible by three ways: through introspection, 
  thought psychological experiments and through brain imaging.
  - The Cognitive Science is very important for this AI area
  and it show the differences and similarities between AI
  techniquess and human cognition.

### Thinking Rationally 
  - The "laws of thought" approach
  - The idea is use the **Logic** for made correctly thoughts
  - Logicist tradition within AI hopes to build on such 
  programs to create intelligent systems.  
  - Exist some problem for this thought line, like the 
  tranformation the informal sentences for formal sentences
  Then's used in logic sentences.

### Acting Rationally
  - It's the most used approach, and the mainly in textbook.
  - The idea of agents is the possibily to perceive the 
  environment, persist over a prolonged time perioed, adapted
  to change and create and persues goals.
  - This approach can do the "laws of thought" approach, but
  it's not the only form. Can made decision using others 
  strategies when doesn't exist a perfect logic scene.  
  - In general this approach has two advantages about anothers, 
  first is moral general than "laws of thought" approach and 
  second it's more amenable to scientfic development than
  anothers approach.


## The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence

In this topic the textbook provide a brief history of the
mainly discipline that contributed ideas, viewspoints and techniques AI.

### Philosophy
  - The philosophy has an important place in AI knowledge
  this started since the first calculator conception to the
  mainly calculator created with add, subtract, multiply and 
  take roots.
  - In evolution have the observation the animal behavior and
  how the aritmetical machine produces effects which appear 
  nearer to thought than all the actons of animals.
  - Another discution is about difference between matter and mind
  - Before thought about physical mind exist the establish the 
  source of knowledge problem, and before some concepts like empiricism
  and thought line phylosophy reached the first theory of mind as
  a computational process.
  - And in the final the philosophy helped AI in disticton between 
  - knowledge and action
  - So many philosophy discutions can be used in AI for
  made good AIs.

### Mathematics
  - Along with philosophy, mathematics helped to apply the 
  philosopy ideas. New mathematics areas were created and helped
  the AI: logic, computation and probability
  - The first step was the **logic**, when Boole made the first-order logic
  that is used today
  - After the logic the **algorithm** made possible to formalize 
  general mathematical reasoning as logical deduction.
  - Therefore Alan Turing helped to show how functions are **computable**, 
  and after the tractability was the another focus.
  - And in the final another important area is the **probability**, 
  then can predict the future actions.

### Economics
  - Probability had more studies specific in economy and
  created anothers knowledge areas.
  - Decision theory and Game theory are some new ares than 
  economics made contribuition to AI.

### Neuroscience
  - Some important question is "How do brains process
  information. 
  - The brain study is an import point to create AI
  with human personality.

### Psychology
  - Some points like the human behavior and how to create
  something like that in AI
  - Another point is the Cognitive psychology and how
  a brain looks like a information-processing device.
  - Therefore with this knowledge are these scients made the
  conclusiont "a cognitive theory should be like a 
  computer program".

### Computer Engineering
  - How can we build an efficient computer?
  - Since WWII to now the computers are going to more 
  powerful.

### Control theory and cybernetics
  - How can artifacts operate under their own control?

### Linguistics
  - How does language relate to thought?

## The history of Artificial Intelligence

### The gestation of artificial intelligence (1943–1955)
  - Begin with the neurons simulate idea, where try to made
  simulate a brain.
  - In 1950, two harvard student create the first neural
  network computer than simulate 40 neurons.
  - In progress the most important person was Turing, with
  Turing Test, teorems and the Child Theorem idea, where
  don't try to create a adult, but try to create a child.
 
### The birth of artificial intelligence (1956)
  - The two-month workshop at Dartmouth in summer of 1956
  where 10 researchs were together to try create machines
  use languages, form abstractions and concepts, solve humans
  reserved problems and in this 2 months they will study 
  Artificial intelligence.
  - This workshop didn't lead to any new breakthrought, but
  it did introduce all the major figures to each other and 
  created a knowledge area.  
  
### Early enthusiasm, great expectations (1952–1969)
  - The enthusiasm to create AIs was borning, in the start
  some AI programs were created, in 1956 was showed the first
  one than start a game and the program quickly learned to 
  play better game then its creator.
  - This movement created a strong impression and the research
  think everything would be possible. Althought in 1958 McCarthy
  believe it's possible to create a complete AI, where thinks 
  completely like a human and learn about new knowledge
  without being reprogrammed.


### A dose of reality (1966–1973)
  - The AIs created in begin just have a good result when
  the test was in select data. But in wider selections of problems
  this systems turned out to fail miserably.
  - The expectations was do things in 10 years, but this same things
  just turn reality after 40 years.
  - The first problem was the no background knowledge about the
  AI try to understand.
  - Another problem was the in microworlds the possibilities are
  limited, so it's possible to try differents combinations of steps
  until the solution was found. But when this methodology go to 
  the real world we got a big problem. This problem happens because
  try multiple steps in real world is just possible for a big computer
  and another fact is *"The fact that a program can find a solution in 
  principle does not mean that the program contains any of the mechanisms needed to find it in practice"*

### Knowledge-based systems: The key to power? (1969–1979)
  - The new approach called "weak methods" was the new perspective 
  on AI field, because the researchs understood for solve a hard problem
  was necessary know about it and solve, maybe, some specific parts.
  - The DENTRAL program was the first system with this vision and have 
  successful to solve a specific chemistry problem. It's possible because
  *"All the relevant theoretical knowledge to solve these problems has been
   mapped over from its general form in the to efficient special forms."*
  - After this successful case another solutions have this perception
  like MYCIN and SHRDLU.

### AI becomes an industry (1980–present)
  - The first successful commercial expert system helped enterprise
  to save millions of dollars and this public have more contact with
  this field.

### The return of neural networks (1986–present)
  - After more people to study this field and the new perceptions
  were created anothers concepts like **back-propagnation** and 
  **connectionist** than helped to understand a new form to use the
  neural networks and solution possibilities.

### AI adopts the scientific method (1987–present)
  - Other important point is AI wasn't near to computer science
  and more and more was more distance. So AI adopts completely the
  scientific method based on computer science existent concepts.

### The emergence of intelligent agents (1995–present)
  - The most difficult point to create intelligent agents is 
  because the sensors aren't good enought to capture information
  from the environment.
  - But intelligent agents are very important for AI because
  the thought form can expand the horizon. 

### The availability of very large data sets (2001–present)
  - During 60 years AIs research just thought about the 
  algorithm, but don't see the idea to train this algorithm with
  many data. *But some recent work in AI suggests that for many problems, 
  it makes more sense to worry about the **data** and be less picky about 
  what algorithm to apply*
  - So during study can be to observe a mediocre algorithm with a very 
  large data set can be more correct than the best known algorithm with
  a few data set.

## The State of the Art
  - In State of the Art we have many fields and study being 
  created like: **Robotic Vehicles**, **Speech recognition**, 
  **Autonomous planning and scheduling**, **Game playing**,
  **Spam fighting**, **Logistics planning**, and others.